When we hear the term hacker, the first thing that usually comes to our mind is a guy wearing a black hoodie and a white mask with a big mustache-most usually thanks to the anonymous group that has popularized this outfit and the pop culture that has gone with it as well, making use of this characteristic combo in TV shows and movies. We tend to associate this persona with someone who goes around setting up traps to steal people’s data, someone who can access private information, who is always in the dark, never goes outside and keeps himself hidden as his daily life surrounds illegal activities. The mainstream media's current connotation of the word hacker may have begun in the early 1980s when the term, previously used only among computer enthusiasts, started to be used to refer to bad actors who harmed computer systems. By then, the computer enthusiast community coined the term “cracker” to distinguish these bad actors in an effort to maintain the difference between “hackers” within the legitimate programmer community and those performing computer break-ins. Pop culture has taken a big role in setting this stereotype of a hacker, which from my perspective and that of many others in the tech industry, is not the best suited for the term. Let me elaborate.

In the TV Show “Mr. Robot”, we follow Elliot Alderson, a cybersecurity expert and vigilante hacker who becomes involved in a global conspiracy. This character portrays in essence what pop culture has been telling us a hacker is, the negative connotation perhaps of this role lies within his actions and ways of being, as Elliot goes around living a darkish life, always being paranoid, getting his hands on the private info of everyone he comes around, just so he is on the advantage when it comes to information. But why? Why has the term “hacker” been utilized in such a manner? Where did it all begin? Who decided to portray the term this way? You may be asking, why does this matter at all? You may not see the problem here, but in reality, what we’ve been told a Hacker is actually belongs to the term “Cracker”, as one whose actions are like Elliot's is correctly labeled as a Cracker in the correctness of the language.

A cracker, in essence, is one whose purpose is to delve into other people’s systems and devices without them knowing in order to get their hands on private information to pursue maleficent goals. In the computer programming communities, these people are also referred to as “Black hat” or cyber-criminals.

There are several categories that later arose from the misuse of the word hacker, such as:

- **White hat** - Someone who breaks security for non-malicious reasons, either to test their own security systems, perform penetration or vulnerability tests for contractors, or while working at a company who hired them to manage security. This is usually a synonym for an ethical hacker.
- **Black hat** - This term represents one whose purpose is to violate computer systems for little reason beyond malicious or personal gain. The term contrasts the last, as the maliciousness of a criminal hacker isn't aligned with the values of exploration and security of the hacker culture, who perform hacking duties to identify places to repair and improve. Black hat hackers perform illegal hacking as portrayed in illegal hacking groups in pop culture and are the reason for the public fear towards computer criminals.
- **Grey hat** - This type of person lies between black and white hat. A grey hat may surf the internet and hack into any software system that they can, not to steal information but for the sole purpose of notifying the administrator that their system has flaws and how to solve them. They were not asked to do this, but neither did they have bad intentions in doing so, hence the term. They may even offer to solve the flaws for free, just because they enjoy doing so, or for a fee.
- **Script Kiddies** - This type of “cracker” is the least respected among all. While the last ones had a high technical knowledge, with know-how in systems architecture and computer programming, which they put to use in cracking systems, script kiddies are just mortal crackers with very basic computer programming knowledge. They get away with hacking by using other people’s code and scripts that were programmed by skilled crackers to execute their illegal activities, usually with little to no understanding of how these tools work.

###So, what is a hacker then?
We all remember the movie “The Matrix” where Neo is a hacker who discovers the truth about the artificial reality created by machines and joins a group fighting against them. This case serves as a good example of what a hacker is, with a connotation that isn't necessarily negative. Originally, a hacker simply meant an advanced computer technology enthusiast and an adherent of the programming subculture. Its core values are the intellectual challenge of creatively overcoming the limitations of software systems or electronic hardware to achieve novel and clever outcomes. The act of engaging in activities such as programming in a spirit of experimentation and exploration is what hacking actually means.

One of my favorite hacking activities is trying to come up with novel solutions for different problems, finding ways to do things that are not usually done, aiming to improve the experience of achieving the goal, reducing the friction of the activity for future users, finding a clear path, and documenting my way of doing things for others to understand my thought process, why and how I came up with the solution, so they can come up with a better one.

From my perspective, in terms of software, this can take many forms, but a recent project I’ve been doing is web scraping. As of right now, I’m building a Twitter bot for a friend of mine who has an account where he tweets about a specific baseball team if they won their latest game or not. If they win, he simply tweets “Yes''; if they don't win, he just tweets “No”. It is a very good idea for a Twitter account.

Most certainly this can be automated, I thought. My first thought was to look for an API where I could pull the score for the most recent game. The problem was, there are no APIs for this information. The only thing I could find were two sites where the information I needed was available. Here’s where the hacking began. I used a technique called “Web Scraping”, where I fetched the webpage HTML source code where the data I needed was. I got the source code fetched from the site in the form of a string of characters, which was not quite useful as if the page changed in the future, I wouldn't be able to effectively retrieve the data I needed. Therefore, I converted that HTML source code from a string of characters to actual HTML code and then retrieved the desired data more efficiently. Now that’s hacking. Couldn’t find any APIs to retrieve the data I needed? No problem, I’ll just scrape their website.

Now the system is not done yet as I’m writing this article instead of working on the thing, but the next entry will be about how I built the whole system when I actually finish it. I might need to ask my friend for permission to write about it. If you see the next article is about the Twitter bot, well, you’ll know he let me write about his Twitter account.

I hope this text helped you internalize what a hacker actually is, and let me let you know that we all are hackers at some point in life, maybe some more frequently than others, but it doesn't matter. At our core, when facing a problem, humans should aim to look at the possible solutions and experimenting, instead of focusing and worrying about the problem itself.

####Thanks for taking the time to read this article! and Happy Hacking!
